my son if you receive my words and
treasure my commands within you so that
you incline your ear to wisdom and apply
your heart to understanding yes if you
cry out for discernment and lift up your
voice for understanding if you seek her
as silver and search for her as for
hidden treasures then you will
understand the fear of the Lord and find
the knowledge of God for the Lord gives
wisdom from his mouth come knowledge and
understanding he stores up sound wisdom
for the upright he is a shield to those
who walk uprightly he guards the paths
of justice and preserves the way of his
Saints then you will understand
righteousness and justice equity and
every good part when wisdom enters your
heart and knowledge is pleasant to your
soul discretion will preserve you
understanding
keep you to deliver you from the way of
evil from the man who speaks perverse
things from those who leave the paths of
uprightness to walk in the ways of
darkness who rejoice in doing evil and
delight in the perversity of the wicked
whose ways are crooked and who are
devious in their paths to deliver you
from the immoral woman from the
seductress who flatters with a words who
forsakes the companion of her youth and
forgets the Covenant of her God for her
house leads down to death and her paths
to the dead nun who go to her return nor
do they regain the paths of life so you
may walk in the way of goodness and keep
to the paths of righteousness for the
upright will dwell in the land and the
blameless will remain in it but the
wicked will be cut off from the earth
and the unfaithful will be uprooted from